docs: add documentation for svelte.dev (#31)
sveltejs/mcp: documentation/docs/20-setup/20-local-setup.md

---
title: Local setup
---

> The STDIO (local) version of the MCP server is available as an `npm` package: `@sveltjs/mcp`. You can either install it globally and then reference it in your configuration or run it with `npx`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The local (or stdio) version of the MCP server is available via the [`@sveltejs/mcp`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sveltejs/mcp) npm package. You can either install it globally and then reference it in your configuration or run it with `npx`:
```

```bash
npx -y @sveltejs/mcp
```

Here's how to set it up in some common MCP clients:

## Claude Code

To include the local MCP version in Claude Code, simply run the following command:

```bash
claude mcp add -t stdio -s [scope] svelte npx -y @sveltejs/mcp
```

> You can choose your preferred `scope` (it must be `user`, `project` or `local`) and `name`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `[scope]` must be `user`, `project` or `local`.
```

## Claude Desktop

Open the Developer section in settings, click on `Edit Config`. It will open the folder with a `claude_desktop_config.json` file in it. Edit the file to include the following configuration:

```json
{
	"mcpServers": {

> 		"[name]": {

Reviewer: same question, can we just put something here so that the user can copy and paste? could it just be `"svelte"`?

			"command": "npx",
			"args": ["-y", "@sveltejs/mcp"]
		}
	}
}
```

The top level must be `mcpServers` but you can choose your preferred `name`.

## Codex CLI

> Add the following to your `config.toml` (defaults to `~/.codex/config.toml`... refer to [the configuration documentation](https://github.com/openai/codex/blob/69cb72f8422f2aa7222bea3a6ce48fd130fa76c4/docs/config.md) for more advanced setups):

Reviewer: surely we want to point to `main` so that it reflects the current docs? tiny risk of breakage outweighed by guarantee of staleness IMHO

```suggestion
Add the following to your `config.toml` (which defaults to `~/.codex/config.toml`, but refer to [the configuration documentation](https://github.com/openai/codex/blob/main/docs/config.md) for more advanced setups):
```

```toml

> [mcp_servers.name]

Reviewer: ditto — this looks like i'm supposed to copy this verbatim. would be much friendlier like this I think:

```suggestion
[mcp_servers.svelte]
```

command = "npx"
args = ["-y", "@sveltejs/mcp"]
```

> 
> The top level must be `mcp_server` but you can choose your preferred `name`.

Reviewer: ditto

```suggestion
```

## Gemini CLI

To include the local MCP version in Gemini CLI, simply run the following command:

```bash
gemini mcp add -t stdio -s [scope] [name] npx -y @sveltejs/mcp
```

You can choose your preferred `scope` (it must be `user`, `project` or `local`) and `name`.

> ## Opencode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## OpenCode
```

Run the command:

```bash
opencode mcp add
```

and follow the instructions, selecting Local when asked for "Select MCP server type":

```bash
opencode mcp add

┌  Add MCP server
│
◇  Enter MCP server name
│  [name]
│
◇  Select MCP server type
│  Local
│
◆  Enter command to run
│  npx -y @sveltejs/mcp
```

You can choose your preferred `name`.

> ## VSCode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## VS Code
```

- Open the command palette
- Select "MCP: Add Server..."
- Select "Command (stdio)"
- Insert `npx -y @sveltejs/mcp` in the input and press `Enter`
- Insert your preferred name
- Select if you want to add it as a `Global` or `Workspace` MCP server

## Cursor

- Open the command palette
- Select "View: Open MCP Settings"
- Click on "Add custom MCP"

It will open a file with your MCP servers where you can add the following configuration:

```json
{
	"mcpServers": {
		"svelte": {
			"command": "npx",
			"args": ["-y", "@sveltejs/mcp"]
		}
	}
}
```

> 
> The top level must be `mcpServers` but you can choose your preferred `name`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
